= Getting started

The main dependencies are Ruby 1.9.x, the ZeroMQ library and the bundler gem. Once the bundler gem
is installed, bundler can be used to install the remaining dependencies using
the Gemfile in the root directory of the project. You may want to install and
use a RVM gemset. This keeps to the installed gems separated from other gems
on your system to prevent any version conflicts.

== Quickstart

1. Clone the repository:
    
    $ git clone git://github.com/ais-case/ais.git

2. Run the installer:

    $ ais/installer.sh

3. Now activate the project <tt>.rvmrc</tt> to ensure the correct
   RVM environment is selected when you work on the project:

    $ source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm && cd ais  

   When asked: <tt>Do you wish to trust this .rvmrc file?</tt>,answer with 
   <tt>yes</tt>, <tt><ENTER></tt> 
 
You can now jump straight to "Running the system" to start the services

== Installation

=== Optional: setting up an environment with RVM

RVM allows you to install and run the project without conflicts with other Ruby-based
projects you might have installed. Instructions for the installation can be found at 
the {RVM website}[https://rvm.io/rvm/install/]. A quick overview of RVM installation 
and setup for this project:

1. Download and install RVM:
 
    $ curl -L get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
    
2. Load RVM into current session:

    $ source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
    
3. Download and install Ruby 1.9:

    $ rvm install 1.9.3

4. Indicate you want to use Ruby 1.9.3:

    $ rvm use 1.9.3

5. Create a separated gemset for this project:

    $ rvm gemset create ais
    
6. Switch to the newly created environment: 

    $ rvm use "1.9.3@ais"

Before you work with the project you will always have to switch to this gemset. This
can be automated by updating <tt>environment_id</tt> in a <tt>.rvmrc</tt> file of the project with the 
information about your environment. An example file is included as <tt>.rvmrc.distrib</tt>

=== Installing dependencies

The Ruby dependencies of the project are documented in the Gemfile. To install all 
dependencies, use the bundler gem:

1. Install bundler:

    $ gem install bundler
    
2. Then from inside the project directory run bundler to download and install all dependencies:

    $ bundle install

In addition to these Ruby Gems you will also need to install the ZeroMQ library available 
from http://www.zeromq.org.

== Running the system

From the main project folder you can start the service platform:

    $ rake services:start

The process will run indefinitely, keeping the service processes alive in the
background until you kill the rake task with <tt>CTRL-C</tt>.
To launch the web interface run the Rails webserver:

    $ rails s
	
You should now be able to access the web interface from http://localhost:3000.

Note that sources of raw AIS messages are currently hardcoded in 
<tt>lib/services/transmitter_service.rb</tt>.

=== Running tests

There are three separate test suites, using a variety of tools. These tools 
are automatically installed when you run <tt>bundle install</tt>.

* Acceptance tests use the {Cucumber}[http://cukes.info/] tool, and
  are driven by browser automation with 
  {Capybara}[http://jnicklas.github.com/capybara/]. Browser automation requires 
  Firefox to be installed. The tests are defined in the <tt>features</tt> 
  subdirectory. Run the acceptance tests with:
   
    $ rake cucumber
    
  One note: acceptance tests have additional requirements, which are not 
  installed when the installation method described in Quickstart is used. To
  install the additional dependencies run <tt>bundle install</tt> from the 
  root of the project.
   
* Ruby unit tests use the {RSpec}[http://rspec.info/] tool, and can be found
  in the <tt>spec</tt> subdirectory. Run the unit tests with:

    $ rake spec
	
* Javascript unit tests use the {Jasmine}[http://pivotal.github.com/jasmine/] 
  tool, and can be found in <tt>spec/javascript</tt>. To run the tests use:

    $ rake jasmine:ci
